chocolatey: Add instructions for chocolatey (#19)
haskell-infra/www.haskell.org: downloads/windows.markdown

---
title: Downloads for Windows
page: downloads
isDownloads: true
---

# Downloads for Windows

## Package-based install

The package based installers on Windows use [chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org).
To use them first [configure Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/install) on your machine.

> ### Setup new environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting up new environment
```

> Steps to setup ghc and cabal are given in the [ghc chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/ghc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the steps for setting up ghc and cabal given by [ghc chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/ghc)
```

> Follow the steps for setting up ghc and cabal given by [ghc chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/ghc)

Author: I think that's fair, but you only need `haskell-dev` for the initial install.

> For new installations it is recommended to use `Haskell-Dev` which will also setup and configure `MSys2` for use with `GHC` and `Cabal`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For new installations, it is recommended to use `Haskell-Dev` which will also setup and configure `MSys2` for use with `GHC` and `Cabal`.
```

**If upgrading from `Haskell-Platform` please see instructions below.**

`Haskell-Dev` can be installed from Chocolatey as follows from an elevated command prompt:

```bash
choco install haskell-dev
refreshenv
```

Chocolatey has limited [non-administrative](https://chocolatey.org/docs/installation#non-administrative-install) install support for those that absolutely need it.

> After this you can upgrade or install additional `ghc` independently (see below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this you can upgrade or install additional `ghc` versions independently (see below).
```

> Read more about [haskell-dev](https://hub.zhox.com/posts/introducing-haskell-dev/) or about how to integrate with Cloud CI systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For integrating with Cloud CI systems, see [haskell-dev](https://hub.zhox.com/posts/introducing-haskell-dev/). 
```

> Packages are installed into `%ProgramData%\chocolatey\lib\ghc\` and `%ProgramData%\chocolatey\lib\cabal\`

Reviewer: This is a Chocolatey fact. We probably don't need to repeat this here.

Author: I've done so because the `Linux` instructions seem to explicitly point out where they are installed. Note that while this is the chocolatey default it's up to packages to decide where they're installed.

Steps to setup stack are [on the stack website](https://docs.haskellstack.org/en/stable/install_and_upgrade/#ubuntu).

### Upgrading from Haskell-Platforms

If moving from a `Haskell-Platform` based installation to `Chocolatey` you will need to clean your `cabal` configuration before uninstalling `Haskell-Platform`.

To do this run:
```bash
cabal user-config init -f
```

> and proceed to uninstall `Haskell-Platform` before installing using Chocolatey otherwise the Chocolatey packages may not modify the Cabal configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and proceed to uninstall `Haskell-Platform` before installing using Chocolatey. Otherwise, the Chocolatey packages may not modify the Cabal configuration file.
```

> Do not keep both `Haskell-Platform` and `Chocolatey` based set up at the same time as they modify the same global configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not attempt to use both `Haskell-Platform` and `Chocolatey`-based installations at the same time, as they modify the same global configuration.
```

### Upgrading/Downgrading GHC or Cabal

`GHC` or `Cabal` can be upgraded using the [Chocolatey upgrade](https://chocolatey.org/docs/commandsupgrade) command.

For `GHC` (which may or may not trigger a cabal upgraded based on the version constraints)

```bash
choco upgrade ghc
refreshenv
```

For just `cabal` which will never trigger a `ghc` upgrade.
```bash
choco upgrade cabal
refreshenv
```

For both `ghc` and `cabal`

```bash
choco upgrade ghc cabal
refreshenv
```

Downgrades can be performed by specifying the version number during installation. e.g:

```bash
choco install ghc --version 8.6.5
refreshenv
```

> A list of versions available can be seen on the [ghc Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/ghc) website or by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A list of available versions can be found on the [GHC Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/ghc) website or by
```

using the command

```bash
choco list ghc --all
```

### Installing multiple versions of GHC

> Multiple versions of `GHC ` can be installed concurrently by using the `-m` switch:

Author: `-m` is short for `Multiple` it just lets the package manager allow more than one version of the same package to be installed at the same time.  Normally this would result in an error saying you have a more recent/older version install and to upgrade or downgrade instead..

> Multiple versions of `GHC ` can be installed concurrently by using the `-m` switch:

Reviewer 2: I would use one of the long aliases for that Param: `--allow-multiple` for example
